README.md, before:

# FUBER Cab hiring Service

Basic implementation of API for a cab hiring service.

## Requirements

- There is a fleet of cabs available, each cab has a location, determined by it’s latitude and longitude.
- A customer can call one of the taxis by providing their location, and the nearest taxi must be assigned to the customer.
- Some customers are particular that they only ride around in pink cars, for hipster reasons. This ability should be supported.
- When the cab is assigned to the customer, it can no longer pick up any other customers
- If there are no taxis available, the customer's request should be rejected.
- The customer ends the ride at some location. The cab waits around outside the customer’s house, and is available to be assigned to another customer.

## Getting Started

To get the Node server running locally:

1. Clone this repo
2. `npm install` to install all required dependencies
3. `npm start` to start the local server
4. Access [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) to see the frontend

## Directory Structure

- `public`
- `src`
  - `server.js` - Entry point to the application. Defines express server.
  - `classes/` - Contains Class definitions to create default object for table entries
  - `routes/` - Route definitions for the API.
  - `controllers/` - Handler functions.
  - `models/` - Currently contains functions that access the manually saved data in `data.js`. When connected to database, it would have the queries to access that.
  - `globals.js` - Saves values which need to be consistent in the whole app.
  - `utils.js` - Certains helper functions required by models to complete the task
- `tests`
- `data.js`: Manually created test data

## Sample Objects

```
user: {
    id: 1,
    name: 'Geekskool',
    lat: 12.961529724459048,
    lon: 77.64430036382869,
    status: 'idle' // enum ['idle', 'booked', 'riding']
}

cab: {
    id: 1,
    driver: 'Resida',
    lat: 12.961482100489755,
    lon: 77.64549770865008,
    isBooked: false,
    isPink: false,
}

ride: {
  id: 1,
  userId: 2,
  cab: {
    id: 1,
    driver: 'Resida',
    isPink: false,
  },
  status: 'accepted' // enum ['accepted', 'started', 'cancelled', 'completed'],
  source: {
      lat: 12.961756055726415,
      lon: 77.64412371081289
    },
  destination: {
      lat: 12.961856055726415,
      lon: 77.6446237108129
    },
  startTime: timestamp,
  endTime: timestamp
}
```

## API Endpoints

GET `/rides`

> _query_: lat, lon, isPink
> _response_: error or `cab` object []

Returns the array of available cabs within approximately 1 km radius of user's location. To get the list of available pink cabs, set query param `requestPink` as `true`

POST `/rides`

> _body_: `{source, destination, user, requestPink}` > _response_: error or `cab` object with properties `{isBooked: true}` and `currentRideId` having the `id` of new ride created

Checks if user is not already on another ride
Gets the closest cab within 5 km radius of user's location
Updates user's and cab's status to booked
Create a new ride
Returns ride details to user

PATCH `/rides/{rideId}/start`

Updates the ride status to started and start time with current time
Updates user's status to riding
Updates cab's currentRideId to ride id
Returns ride details to user

PATCH `/rides/{rideId}/end`

Updates the ride status to completed and the end time with current time
Updates user status to idle
Updates the location of cab to destination location and status to available
Returns the receipt of ride to user

PATCH `/rides/{rideId}/cancel`

Updates the ride status to cancelled, cab status to available and user status to idle
Returns ride details to user

## Testing

Jest has been used to create unit tests for the API. Check if all tests pass with `npm run test`

Commit message:

Add: Show Available Cabs + Book Cab Front End

README.md, after:

# FUBER Cab hiring Service

Basic implementation of API for a cab hiring service.

## Requirements

- There is a fleet of cabs available, each cab has a location, determined by it’s latitude and longitude.
- A customer can call one of the taxis by providing their location, and the nearest taxi must be assigned to the customer.
- Some customers are particular that they only ride around in pink cars, for hipster reasons. This ability should be supported.
- When the cab is assigned to the customer, it can no longer pick up any other customers
- If there are no taxis available, the customer's request should be rejected.
- The customer ends the ride at some location. The cab waits around outside the customer’s house, and is available to be assigned to another customer.

## Assumptions

- The user is already logged in.
- To show the functionalities of api without real time data, the pickup location is assigned location of users[0] instead of accessing current geolocation.
- The ride is created with status 'accepted' assuming the driver always accepts the ride.

## Getting Started

To get the Node server running locally:

1. Clone this repo
2. `npm install` to install all required dependencies
3. `npm start` to start the local server
4. Access [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) to see the frontend

## Directory Structure

- `public`
- `src`
  - `server.js` - Entry point to the application. Defines express server.
  - `classes/` - Contains Class definitions to create default object for table entries
  - `routes/` - Route definitions for the API.
  - `controllers/` - Handler functions.
  - `models/` - Currently contains functions that access the manually saved data in `data.js`. When connected to database, it would have the queries to access that.
  - `globals.js` - Saves values which need to be consistent in the whole app.
  - `utils.js` - Certains helper functions required by models to complete the task
- `tests`
- `data.js`: Manually created test data

## Sample Objects

```
user: {
    id: 1,
    name: 'Geekskool',
    lat: 12.961529724459048,
    lon: 77.64430036382869,
    status: 'idle' // enum ['idle', 'booked', 'riding']
}

cab: {
    id: 1,
    driver: 'Resida',
    lat: 12.961482100489755,
    lon: 77.64549770865008,
    isBooked: false,
    isPink: false,
}

ride: {
  id: 1,
  userId: 2,
  cab: {
    id: 1,
    driver: 'Resida',
    isPink: false,
  },
  status: 'accepted' // enum ['accepted', 'started', 'cancelled', 'completed'],
  source: {
      lat: 12.961756055726415,
      lon: 77.64412371081289
    },
  destination: {
      lat: 12.961856055726415,
      lon: 77.6446237108129
    },
  startTime: timestamp,
  endTime: timestamp
}
```

## API Endpoints

GET `/rides`

> _query_: lat, lon, isPink
> _response_: error or `cab` object []

Returns the array of available cabs within approximately 1 km radius of user's location. To get the list of available pink cabs, set query param `requestPink` as `true`

POST `/rides`

> _body_: `{source, destination, user, requestPink}` > _response_: error or `cab` object with properties `{isBooked: true}` and `currentRideId` having the `id` of new ride created

Checks if user is not already on another ride
Gets the closest cab within 5 km radius of user's location
Updates user's and cab's status to booked
Create a new ride
Returns ride details to user

PATCH `/rides/{rideId}/start`

Updates the ride status to started and start time with current time
Updates user's status to riding
Updates cab's currentRideId to ride id
Returns ride details to user

PATCH `/rides/{rideId}/end`

Updates the ride status to completed and the end time with current time
Updates user status to idle
Updates the location of cab to destination location and status to available
Returns the receipt of ride to user

PATCH `/rides/{rideId}/cancel`

Updates the ride status to cancelled, cab status to available and user status to idle
Returns ride details to user

## Testing

Jest has been used to create unit tests for the API. Check if all tests pass with `npm run test`
